Now that you know how to show and hide use the interface elements as well as working with timers.
We're going to put that together to make a pretty complex app called the brain Traina.
You may have used apps like this before.
Essentially this brain Traina app will create a series of sums for you so addition sums to keep your
brain in check and you have to answer as many as you can within 30 seconds.
So initially we've got nothing but this big button.
And then when we press the button we get a timer counting down a score at the top right.
And then in this case a fairly simple sum if we tap it we get it right and add one to our school.
If we get it wrong then it says wrong and obviously doesn't add one to our school.
We can then keep on going trying to get more etc..
So you know ID.
Right.
And then when the time runs out you get a summary of your score and then you get the option to play
again.
And then it starts all over again.
So that's what we're aiming to create.
I'm going to give you one tip that I've used a thing called tags to help me work out which button has
been pressed.
And I recommend you do the same.
So as usual have a Google.
See if you can figure out how that'll work for you or indeed ignore my suggestion completely and do
it another way.
Very welcome to do that.
This is as I say a pretty complicated app compared to anything we've made before.
So if you get completely lost Don't worry about it.
Just take a break and then if you like.
Watch me go through the process of creating it.
But I hope it should be a lot of fun.
Stephanie a challenge.
So best of luck.
I'll give you a moment to pause the video now.
All right.
That went well.
I'm going to start Of course by creating a new project
and we'll call it brain drain.
OK.
So we're going to start by designing the main layout.
So we'll start with the layout for the kind of launch page so that big button that says go and then
we'll have the layout for the actual quits questions page after that.
Here we go.
So let's get rid of Hello World.
I'm just gonna have a single big button right in the middle of the screen that says Go and call it the
stop button.
OK.
Very nice but we don't need much bigger text then let's try 80.
Looks pretty good.
I'm going to increase the padding a bit.
So let's try 20.
D p maybe more.
Lovely.
And I want the background tint to be Cuore fantastic.
Pretty clear with space to do so when they press the button.
We're going to run the start
method which mostly is going to initially at least hide that button.
And then we'll be able to put all the other elements in place.
So that's right.
OK to do that say public void start and will be called by the button of course.
And then
the view framework and then we want to hide that initial button.
So again say creates a global variable for it up there.
Lovely.
And then we'll find it in the uncreate method.
So start putting equals and then we want to cast our view to a button find the by ID card or ID it start
button there we go.
And then we can just restart button set visibility.
If you don't invisible
get just a quick one then to make sure that that's all connected OK all of it should happen of course
is that that big button should disappear when we tap it.
Say tapping the button and there it goes.
Fantastic.
So everything fine that's fun.
Now I'm actually going to update this so that the button is hidden by default so that we don't have
to tap it every time and that makes it much easier to create and lay out as well if we don't have to
hide things behind the button cetera.
So let's set the visibility to invisible from the off.
And then let's add in text view at the top left
which is getting say contain the number of seconds left.
So it initially call that 30 seconds and we'll call it time text view.
And I think we need to make that a little bit bigger.
Try to NTSA pay maybe 30.
I'm also going to change the background color just to make things a little bit more fun.
So make this yellow
and add a little bit of padding
then on the top right we'll add another label or another text view.
This is going to be top right and this is going to be that the number of points.
So initially we're going to have 0 out of 0.
And we'll call it points text Viiv And again
we'll try 40 P.
Let's keep it the same size 30 as P and then padding of
10 DP
and background's
of orange.
Lovely.
And then in the middle here I'm going to add yet another text.
It's going to be aligned to the top but centered which is going to have how some in it.
So let's say we'll start with 31 plus 12 and we'll call this the some text for you.
And then again
we'll have text size money to be a little bit smaller.
So let's try 25.
I think that is good
and padding of 15 DP
OK.
I'm also going to make that slightly darker
text color up
so we'll have it just slightly off black
great that brings that out little bit of a good sofa.
Now we're going to have our grid layouts to put out buttons into.
So that's going to go underneath all of this.
So let's drag in our first button to this grid layout.
I'm going to drag it up there.
Just as we did before.
And then I'm going to go over and do a few bits in the text.
So his great laugh and his our button.
So I'm going to set
the column to zero.
The Ready to zero because this is going to be my top left button.
I'm going to set the column right.
White T.
One
on the right white one as well.
And then I'm going to set the layout gravity to fill and now this is this is the new bit I'm going to
set a tag
and this is what I'm going to use to refer to my buttons.
So this one is going to be the first one that's going to have a tag of 0.
So I will see how to use that in a bit.
But there we go.
So my text for the moment is just going to be a number.
Say number three the text size needs to be quite a bit bigger.
So let's say for 20 espie I think we can actually get a lot bigger than that.
Well Dubik to make I mean 50 OK.
Even
larger than that it may be
80 OK.
And then I'm just going to change the background color because we want nice colorful boxes here.
So we'll make this one please.
Lovely.
And finally the unclick
is going to be if I can find it.
She's onza.
OK so now I've set up everything I need.
I'm going to copy and paste the SML for that button.
Four times to get all four buttons and then just update it as I go.
So this one is going to be column 1 0.
The tag is going to be 1 and I'll choose the background color separately.
This one's going to be color 0 or row 1 tag is going to be two.
And then finally this one is going to have column one row one tag three.
OK.
So I'm liking all of those.
We do have some ideas.
Overlapping we don't want
to buttons with the same ID.
So let's just say those to 0 1 2 and 3.
Then we just need to create different background colors for these buttons.
I can find it
to be very careful not to click on the slider that.
So great for a nice green one.
We'll make this one kind of pinky purple and then bottom writes will make turquoise
OK.
Lovely.
It's a bit like it was designed by a four year old.
But that's as far as my design skills go.
I'm afraid it's at least quite pretty and hopefully quite fun.
The last thing I'm going to do is just change the grid layout to change the height to wrap the content.
So that makes the buttons quite a bit smaller but gives us room to put a correct or incorrect label
underneath.
So let's bring in
the text you want it to be centered
and became and again will change the text size.
About 50 Espey maybe slightly smaller
and I'll just pick correct said that we know how it's going to look and result.
Text VI.
Only thing I'd like there I think is I'd like a little bit of a margin at the top of my grade out to
move it down slightly
let's just try that
great.
Now I want to move correct down slightly.
There we go.
All right.
I'm happy with the lay out.
Let's start getting some interaction.
So we'll go back over to the main activity together.
And here we've hidden the start button.
I'm not going to worry about showing everything else at the moment because we're just going to start
by default and then right at the end we'll add back in the start button.
So it will actually put our code in the on create method and will start by creating our sum.
So we're going to have two letters that represent numbers that we're going to add together.
So if for example it was going to be 7
plus 8 then we'd do something like that of course we don't want 7 and 8 every time.
So we're going to need a random number generator and we do that in Java as we've seen before using Rande
So first we'll create a random rende which is going to be a new random
OK and then we want a random and will generate an integer and I'm going to generate random numbers between
0 and 20.
So that means I need to give it a value of 21 and that will generate a random number between 0 and 20
and will do the same thing for the
you can of course have different vocations for your random numbers you might want them to be too small
or you might would want to be a bit bigger or whatever you like.
Doesn't really matter.
So the first thing we're going to do with these random numbers is update the value of this label so
that the user can see the sum.
So this was some text view.
So let's access that first.
It's a text view
we'll call it some text field.
We need to cast it to a text field and then we'll find it by its ID using our ID or some text field.
OK.
And then we're just going to update some text view.
And we're going to set the text to
integer dot to string I and then plus and then a plus inside the string.
So this plus is not concatenate ending anything.
It's just the plus that appears in the string.
And then we add to that integer to string B.
All right.
So let's just run that and make sure that everything that we've done so far looks OK.
There we go.
So the layout looks nice.
We've got some then which is a couple of random numbers.
Looks good to me and everything else is working.
Now we can generate our answers.
So of course three of them have to be wrong.
And one of them has to be right and the correct one has to appear in a random location within our buttons.
So let's have an answers array list
and these are going to be integers.
And we'll call them ounces I'm defining them up here because we're probably going to need them in a
number of different efforts.
Now we need to generate several random numbers need to generate the three correct answers and also location
of the correct answer.
So let's just define an integer which is going to be location of.
Correct on some.
And then we'll let location of the correct answer be another random number.
This time we wanted to be between 0 and 3.
So we use REM's next.
And then four.
So this will give us 0 1 2 or 3 which makes sense then I'm going to do a little loop which will loop
through each of the values for the buttons.
So through four of them and sign them either the correct answer or a randomly generated incorrect answer.
So I'll use a flip I is going to start off being 0.
We're going to keep going as long as I is less than four.
And we want to increment by one each time and then we want to check if he is equal to the location of
the correct answer.
Then we want to set
says
talk pads and then the correct answer which is a plus b
and if it's not then we won't say that generated incorrect answer.
So we'll use Rande next it.
And if we going from 0 to 20 for each of the two numbers that we're adding together then going from
0 to 40 seems sensible for the total.
Now that's a potential issue here.
It's possible that we could generate a random number which happens to be equal to the answer.
And then if they use a tap's that then they would get it wrong.
So to get round that what we'll do is create an integer called incorrect answer.
And then here will generate an incorrect answer.
In just the same way as we did before we'll have a little while loop which will keep on going as long
as the incorrect answer is equal to A the correct answer which is a plus b.
And if that's true then we'll generate a nother incorrect answer.
So that's quite a neat way of ensuring that we don't have an incorrect answer that happens to be the
same as the correct answer.
So this loop will just keep on going until an incorrect answer is generated which is different to the
correct answer.
So probably that won't take more than once or twice would be very unlikely if it did.
But it could keep on going for a long time.
If by sheer chance we kept on getting values which were the same as the correct value.
OK so now we'll add in the correct answer to our array list.
So once this loop is completed we should have four values in our array list of which one will be the
correct answer and that will be at the location of the correct answer which is again generated randomly
then it's a matter of updating the buttons with their matching values.
It's slightly inelegant what I'm going to do but it'll get the job done.
And for four abutments it's probably the simplest way to do it.
I'm just going to update each of them using their IDs
so we'll create
buttons here.
And Button zero is going to be a button line view by id and our DOT Heidi dot buttons here.
And then to keep things moving swiftly.
Just copy and paste that's
one T three.
And then we can just update each of those manually.
So button 0 I don't set text and that text is going to be integer to string and then the appropriate
answer for that button which is going to be answer is to get and then zero.
So that will set the text of the first button to the first answer.
And then
second button to the second down to it set up
and just before we run that we do actually need to set up answers or a list to be a new array list of
integers.
Otherwise it's not initialized and we can't actually use it.
OK we should with any luck find that we now get a set of four numbers of which one is the correct answer.
So 12 plus 15 is 27.
And that answer is that the other answers are incorrect.
Fantastic.
I just want to test that again.
Just to be absolutely sure.
So next time we should get a different random number.
And there should be in a different location.
So six plus four is 10 which is there and we get some other incorrect answers.
Brilliant.
So now let's add the code for the user to set their correct answer.
We call that cheese on some.
So I'm going to have that
say public void
Jews onza.
And that's going to be called by one of the buttons which of course is a view.
And now this is the clever bit using the tag will allow us to tell which of the buttons has been tapped.
So for now just to convince us that the tags are working let's use logged or I and then tag and then
get the tag of the button that was tapped.
We use view to get the button and then get tag
and then we do just need to cast that to a string which will do that for us.
OK.
So that should print to the logs 0 1 2 or 3 depending on which button we've test.
We've tapped.
Let's just check that that's true.
And then of course we can check that against location of the correct answer to find out whether or not
the user has got it right.
Here we go.
So yep that was the 0 1 2 3 billion.
So we're getting the tag.
So now we need to take the tag and compare it to the location of the correct answer.
So we'll do that by converting both of them to strings.
So I will use view it gets tag to string and then we're going to compare that and remember when we're
comparing two strings we use equals and then the other string is going to be location of correct answer
which is of course an integer.
So we're going to need to convert that to a string as well.
So what is integer to string and then location of correct answer.
So if those match then will log
for now.
Correct.
Remind about the spelling them just want to check to see if this works.
OK.
Six plus years is six.
So with any luck it displayed Carex.
Fantastic.
And just to be sure again we get correct for the others.
Nothing happens.
William So now we need to think about what we're going to do when the user gets the correct answer.
We're going to need to add one to that school and then generate a new question so generating a question
we're going to do that regardless of whether they've got it correct.
So really the only thing we need to do to get it right is add one to that school.
So let's have a school variable which will initially set to.
And then if they get it right school plus plus and come to think of it we also do need to update the
label.
So the result text few label to say correct even though it already does
say let's have a text we call it result text.
We'll find it down here.
It's going to be a text we
are going to find it by its ID and Id dot results X-Fi should be my second nature doing that now.
So now we can take result text V and set the text to correct
and then if they get it wrong.
Then we dont increase the score but will set the text of the result text view to wrong.
OK.
And then lets just go back and
set the contents of that text view to 0 or to empty start with and now we should generate that label
or the label content.
At least when we get it right or wrong
so plus 14 16 is correct.
Fantastic.
Just to make sure make sure that the wrong label appears when necessary as well.
And plus one is not 11 that's wrong.
So we're looking good.
Let's then keep track of this score.
So we need to display that to the user.
And we're doing that up here in our points text view
as well as the school we need to know the number of questions.
Which again is going to be Zerah.
And here we're going to increment the number of questions.
Either way whether they get it right or wrong they still get in the question.
So now we need to find
the what was it called points text view
say text VI points text view
down him
points text is a text view finding it by its ID.
Ideato points text for you.
Lovely.
So now we can set the points text view
text to and we want a slash in the middle and we want the school
as a string
and then the slash and Ben we want to convert the number of questions to a string say let's just quickly
check that.
We should now find the ones with answer to a question it updates the school
correctly for us
say 7 1 out of 1 billion.
This is looking good.
So now we need to generate a new question each time a question is answered.
So if you've been paying attention you're probably thinking that we need to create a new method generate
question
because we're going to want to call that various points.
So here's our code.
Remember that generates the question.
So I'm just going to cut all of that that generates a question at the beginning.
And then put that Kate in the I'm going to need
those buttons to find elsewhen.
Let's just get rid of the definitions that
and define them up here.
So one T and three and some text few as well.
So we'll copy that definition.
We don't want to define it down there.
Instead we want to define it up here.
OK with just checking that's our code still works.
So we're generating a random number that I need within.
How that here so that's fine.
That's going to update the question.
We randomly generate the location of the correct answer.
Then we generate the incorrect answers then we display those on the buttons.
That looks promising.
So we're going to want to generate a new question
soon as the user has answered the previous question.
All right so now if we've done everything correctly we should find that we have a string of questions
being asked and indeed that they the app keeps track of the score as well as we go along.
So 11:12 23.
So one out of 1.
Correct.
And a new question.
Is it looking good.
19 plus 14.
Now the correct answer is 33 which is not here.
Can you think what's causing that error in fact I'll give you a moment to think about it because it's
quite a good one.
The answer is our array list is getting added to every time we generate some new answers.
So what we need today is
remove the contents of our answers list each time we generate some new ones and we can do that using
answers it clear
every guy with any luck with that shit.
Fix the problem and will genuinely generate nuances that we can access and add to our buttons.
OK is there a plus there is zero.
13 plus 2 is 15 7 plus 16 is 23.
Excellent.
Let's just get one wrong.
This is good.
Yep.
Five plus eight is 13.
Brilliant.
And that score is doing a great job of keeping track.
So our basic core system is now working we just need to add a few tweaks.
Mostly we need to get this time of working.
So let's do that over in on create
we'll need a new count down timer
and we want it to last for 30 seconds.
So 30000 and we wanted to tick every seconds every thousand
and I'm going to ask it to generate the methods for us
lovely and we need a semi-colon there.
And actually I just remembered that we need to make it very slightly longer.
Otherwise we would have that weird effect that we saw in the egg time app so we actually have to do
each time the time it takes down
is the date the label over here the text the time a text field.
So let's do that.
I'm going say creates it up here so I text field time at
textfield
and then we'll find it here.
Cast it to text we find VBI ID Card ID.
Time at X-Fi
we go.
So we just need to set a time a text free
and then we're going to take our seconds into finished.
Divide that by a thousand and then convert that to a string.
So we use string dots
value of
every game and then just to check here.
I'm going to put the final results that the user got in the same place as
the results are in results.
Textfield.
So let's just update that is the result.
Text feed or set text
find out just put down and say that we don't have to watch it every time let's change it to three seconds
and then we just need to tell that to start
and actually don't want to forget to add the ass off to the valley.
So I know that there's so many seconds remaining
I can take a look.
Here we get two seconds.
Excellent IPs all that.
Once again I think we do need to update the time on finish
time text.
We set text
to zero seconds on finish and then we'll
change the text to your school.
And this is really just going to mirror what it already says.
In the top right any way.
So let's just copy that.
And pop that you could if you wanted add a little well-done or could do better.
If you want to decide what makes a good school and what doesn't.
But I'll leave that to you to add the final bits.
In this part at least for me is going to be to add a play again button.
So that just underneath
my result text V.
So the text will be played again.
Ideally we play again
button.
And then the only thing I'm going to edit here is the on click
call that plug in.
So let's write the code for that
as usual public void play again.
It's going to be called by a view.
So what do we need to do.
We need to set the school back to zero.
We need to set the number of questions back to zero.
We need to update the timeout
say.
In fact what I think the
is just cool.
They play again method when the app starts and then put the timer in that and then we just want to reset
the text of the time a text view.
Set text to 30 seconds
and we want to say it's
the text of the points text we
zero out of zero.
And we want to set the result text the text to nothing.
We also want to hide the play again button because we don't want that to be that while they're actually
playing.
So
let's keep that in say button play again button.
And then down here
we'll add our play again button.
Find Wii by id and then Adon Heidi don't play again.
Button.
So we want that to show you when the timer has finished.
So here
I play again button set visibility.
If you don't visible and then we want to hide it when we started to play again I Plag up and button
set visibility view Dorte invisible.
And finally we want initial visibility to be invisible because we don't want the plug in button to appear
at the beginning of the game.
Right.
I think we've done everything that we may well have forgotten one or two things but let's take a look
and see how it displays.
I have found that we don't necessarily see all of the values of this time as my machine is chugging
a little bit here.
I think I may have missed can see here.
I haven't got any arguments.
I should have some arguments.
Not a problem.
That's quite an interesting area actually.
It's not that I forgot to view in my method definition it's that down here
we're calling play again and we need to send a V.
So here it really doesn't matter what the view is.
But it just needs a view.
So what will day is we'll send
the play again button the
given that that's what launches it later on anyway it seems to make sense.
But really any view will do here.
Here we go then.
So got no button there that's good.
OK your score zero.
Fantastic plug in.
So it's getting back to zero again.
This is looking good but one thing it's not doing is generating a new question.
That's a shame.
OK but not a problem.
They're easy to fix We just need to add that to our play again.
Method here.
So generate question and in fact that means that we can get rid of it from our own create method
because it's already going to be called when we call the play again method here.
OK.
I feel we're pretty close now.
Our last step of course will be setting up the go button so score zero.
That's fine.
Excellent.
Now we've got a new question if I can answer in time and we do get one out of one fantastics our basic
brain drain is now completely up and running.
We just need to set it up so that that initial go button is displayed correctly.
Now what I'm going to do here rather than manually hide and show all of these elements I'm going to
create a second relative lay out which I'm going to drag into the existing relative lay out there and
then everything except the start button.
I'm going to select and then drag it into that new relative lay out and then that relative lay out is
going to be invisible to start with.
So everything is going to be invisible and the stop button is now going to be visible.
There we go.
And then when the stop button is pressed
it sets its own visibility to invisible.
We then need an ID to refer to this new relative layout
or call it game relative lay out
and then let's just add that in.
So it's a relative lay out called Game
relative layout.
We'll find it down here.
Relative lay out fine be for you by id
high speed game relative layouts and then we can make that visible by setting the visibility to two
relative lay out dot feasible.
There we go.
And it actually doesn't matter whether we leave the play again.
Method call in on create.
But I think it makes a little bit more sense logically at least to call it when the start button.
And in fact yes we will need that because the timer we want to start as soon as the start button is
pressed and not before OK.
I'm feeling fairly confident about this.
I'm going to update the timer to get back to 30 seconds.
To start with and then let's take a look.
So just to recap their wallets compiling I've used a relative lay out there more as a logical collection
of objects rather than an actual way of laying them out as such.
And that's a perfectly valid use of a layout or grouping if you want to do it that way.
So here we go time is looking good 19 plus three 22 correct is in the wrong place right.
So we've lost something there.
Let's just jump back quickly.
So yeah we do have a problem with our results.
Textfield
Let's just quickly make all of that visible again be a little bit easier.
I think what's happened is I set the layout for result textfield to depend on go button which was a
bad idea anyway but it completely broke when I took the go button.
Out of that relative out so it's probably easiest to fix this using the text
say where is how
result.
Text Phew.
There it is.
Yep you can see.
So it's currently below the start button which is not what we want.
We wanted to be like the grid layout which I don't think actually has an ID
so let's just set an ID to the grid layout
and that's just can be
gridlock.
We'll be fine then.
And then let's set this to be for TS PayPal I a great lay out might make it a little bit too low down.
Hard to tell because it doesn't currently have any text
Let's check it out.
It's not hugely significant one way or the other but it should appear down there.
I suspect we may need to change the layout slightly that we'll see
oh yes of course we need to make that invisible.
But let's just use this to check the location of the result label.
Yeah I think I'd like to give that a bit of a top margin to move it slightly further down.
And while we're doing that we can make relatively invisible as well so let's just change results next
few to have a margin at the top.
Try 15 t Petey's and it's looking a little higher up actually.
try that out.
And then just set the game relative layouts to invisible
and with any luck for the final time.
Well give it a run
okay.
Tango 6 plus 1 is 7.
That looks much better.
Serapis 20 is 20 1970 and 16 who 25 hottest Q1 on purpose obviously 14 plus 1731 6 plus 16 22 18 22
12 plus 3 or 15 12 percent 20 every game.
Your score 12 out of 13.
Fantastic So that's all working great.
And then play again.
Resets everything back to zero again and 14 plus to 16.
It's such beryllium.
So we now have are completely working brain Traina.
I hope you did manage to do a fair bit of that yourself but there was quite a lot of complex code in
here and you can see we've actually written quite a lot of code all in all which hopefully starts to
convince you of the importance of keeping your code very well organized keeping your variable names
very clear et cetera et cetera because trying to maintain something like this is not simple.
If you particularly enjoy that one there's very easy ways to take it further.
You could make it so that instead of just addition signs we have subtraction as well multiplication
division.
So they could be randomly put in there or the user could have the option to choose addition or subtraction
or multiplication or division has their sums for that day.
You could have a high school which is updated each time the user obviously outperforms themselves and
you could of course make it look even more beautiful and colorful than it does already.
That wouldn't be too difficult a challenge but I hope you've enjoyed making what was probably our biggest
and most complex app so far.
We're now going to move away from time as a last and we're going to start looking at how we can download
web content and use that directly in our apps.